ML-based for TN Prediction and Energy Saving in Effluent Water
===
Wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) account for 1% to 2% of total social carbon emissions, offering high carbon reduction potential. WWTPs employing ecological combination ponds (ECPs) in small towns across China are struggling to dynamically adjust operating parameters under fluctuating influent quality conditions, resulting in excessive aeration and external carbon source overdosing to meet the stringent total nitrogen (TN) discharge standards. To address these issues, it is essential to establish appropriate enhanced TN removal model for WWTPs with ECPs, achieving energy savings and carbon emission reduction. In this study, we collected three years of operational data from a full-scale urban WWTP utilizing ECPs and implemented an interpretable machine learning approach to predict and optimize effluent TN concentration. 

ML-based GUI for TN Prediction and Energy Saving in Effluent Water
===
This is a GUI for predicting the total nitrogen in the effluent and showing the energy saving and carbon reduction after optimizing the parameters.<br>The GUI can only be run twice before closing the interface completely or clicking on reset.The first time, after inputting all the parameters and clicking on the prediction button, the predicted results are shown in the output boxes “Original Effluent TN (mg/L):” and “Original Energy Consumption (kWh):” respectively. “ and “Original Energy Consumption (kWh):” output boxes respectively. Then the user can modify the values of the input boxes in the right column according to the range of optimization parameters provided in the right column input box. After the modification is completed, click on the Prediction button for the second time, and the predicted results will be displayed in the output boxes of “Optimized Effluent TN (mg/L):”, “Optimized Energy Consumption (kWh):” and “Optimized Energy Consumption (kWh):”, respectively. “Optimized Energy Consumption (kWh):”, ‘Energy Savings (kWh):’, and ‘Carbon Source Savings (m³/d):’. d):” in the output boxes.
<br> The picture below is an example of how to use the GUI step-by-step:<br> Step 1: Enter all the original parameters and tap the “Prediction” button.<br>![image] (https://github.com/Tomriddle-lab/TNeff-GUI/blob/master/step%201.png) <br> Step 2: Modify the parameters according to the parameter optimization ranges in the right column and tap the “Predict” button.<br> ![image] (https://github.com/Tomriddle-lab/TNeff-GUI/blob/master/step%202.png)
